I will start with native features on the official documentation page again just to also let you know
where to find more information.
We already had a look at component's API of theming.
Let's now have a look at Native Discovery's native features you can use on your app or on your mobile
device native features or basically features which kind of need a mobile device to work correctly like
the fingerprint sensor or for us interesting right now.
The geolocation so let's scroll down to this part geolocation which is responsible for locating you.
You'll find the command.
You have to run to used as plug in here ionic plug in at coord of a plug in geolocation.
So let's copy this and simply run it here in the command line of our project.
What this will do is it will enable this plug in for us and switch some configurations for example also
request the right permissions and when you then build it for a native device so that your device the
App Store where your publisher apt you also knows which permissions app requires.
So that's all happening behind the scenes here.
And with this tiny command we and able to plug in and you have to enable any native device feature any
plug in you want to use here as you can see there are quite a lot of plug ins you can use and these
are old coord of a plug ins but Iyonix 2 wraps itself around those plug ins.
So you run this ironic plug in at command and then the name of the cord of a plug in this is how it
works.
This is the command.
We just ran.
You can find more information about the specific plug in here on this page and also on the page just
linked here.
So definitely check out this documentation if you're using some of her native feature as you see there
are quite a lot and probably a bit too far to cover them all here though we will have a look at a couple
of avarice in the next pictures too.
Let's start with the geolocation and we also have examples or on how to use it.
And then some detailed documentation.
So that's really great and really something to dive deeper into if you want using geolocation is super
simple though.
So let's do it in the at least typescript file here or in the template let's say let's start here.
Here we not only have our select on map button we also have the locate me button which executes the
on located method.
So I will now implement the on located method here and this should kind of trigger this auto detection
to be able to use this.
I need to import geolocation so I'll do it last year at the top and we import this geolocation like
this one word from and not from ionic angular but from ionic native.
That's a difference.
So import geolocation from ionic native with this we were able to use it here in this typescript file
and then in the on locate Meffert I simply want to fetch my location and it works just like this.
I use geolocation Dipak which I just imported.
And there we have to get current position Meffert let's execute the method.
This method will surprisingly try to fetch our current position and it will return a promise so we can
then listen to this promise or to the result of that promise if it's resolved.
So if it was successful or catch any errors an error might be that we didn't allow to you apt to fetch
our location because even if we request permissions the user is still able to denied us to initiate
this permission right.
So that could be a reason or that there is no TB or life-I equatable.
So there are a couple of reasons why this could fail.
So we definitely need to handle the case that we're not able to fetch our position in this case will
receive an error and we should handle this error to probably show some error message or come back just
a second.
For now I will log it to the console though that of course is not a great way of handling it but we
will improve soon.
And then Meffert we will actually get to the location as an argument so if it was successful and here
I can and simply use this location and we can present this to the console to see which data it involved
or which data it held you can do this.
But I already know that it will have a latitude and longitude.
So I can then said this location led us to the location object we're getting here by the geolocation
plug in there we will have a cord's property and discords property has a couple of Suppe properties
like the accuracy and so on important data you might need but also very importantly the latitude.
And of course the same exists for the Langit long attitude.
So make sure to extract these to the long it you'd like this.
With that we did set our location so we should also set location is set to true because it's an alternative
to manually choosing it.
And with that we do have a location right.
So this is a way of fetching this.
And I'd say let's see it in action.
And even though it is a native device feature that is something which will probably also work in your
browser because your browser is also able to get the location of your machine.
So I'm going to test this in the browser.
No worry will soon see it all run on a native device too.
So let's save it and recompile this application and then go back to a running app.
And here I will hit locate me
and after a couple of seconds the location appears here.
Now I actually faked this a bit and changed the location behind the scenes because I don't want to expose
my living place.
It's in the same city at least in Berlin.
So this is now the location which was chosen by the geolocation plug in.
And you may have seen that it took a couple of seconds to get this location so we can definitely improve
the user experience by showing some loading Ike and something which indicates that something is happening
here.
So let's do this next.
But it's great to see that education is already working and with this and as a super importer stand
we implemented our first native device feature even though it runs on the browser here too.
But again it's a feature which uses some of our native device features like CPS or life-I and it just
happens to be the case that our browser our PC is also able to utilize some of those features.